Testing, testing. 1, 2, 3, 4. 1, 2, 3, 4. Testing,
testing. Still testing. 5, 6, 7, 8. 5, 6, 7, 8. Still
testing. We're testing a second time. Testing,
testing. Testing. 1, 2, 3. Testing.
This is October the 4th. We're in Evans Library,
and I have the honor and pleasure of chatting with
Dr. Susan Wynne about her A&M first, her
undergraduate student days. To introduce
yourself to anyone who might listen or read, give a
biographical summary sketch before you got to
A&M. Before I got to A&M. Family, where you grew up,
what did Mom and Dad do, I was born into a TCU family,
multi-generations. Several generations lived
in Fort Worth. We grew up also in the Disciples of
Christ Church, which was affiliated with TCU. So
it was a very strong network. My older sister went
to TCU. We moved to Houston, though, the week
before I started kindergarten, so I went all the
way through the Houston Independent School
District. Poe Elementary, the Edgar Allan Poe
Ravens. I always thought that was a great name. The
Sidney Lanier Purple Pups and the Mirabeau B.
Lamar Redskins. My father, Matt Rudd, was
president of the TCU Alumni Association in 1969.
He was a salesman of everything from... He sold
Colonel Sanders paper boxes in Kentucky back in
the 50s and then went on to selling offshore
drilling rigs in the oil heydays of Houston in the
60s and 70s. Mom went to TCU as well and was
president of the TCU Women's Club sometime in the
60s. And she... worked as an executive secretary,
probably could have done a lot more than she did,
but that's another story. She was a good mom. And I
was always a straight-A student and loved being
active, loved music, just wanted to do
everything, and was valedictorian in my senior
class at Lamar, even though in those days in the
early 70s, they said that every kid who got a 4.0 was
number one so there ended up being 13 of us and only
later when one of my buddies broke into the
principal's office to see if he was really the
number one number one he found out that I was really
the number one number one and I never really got the
proper recognition for that and I've always kind
of resented it but at least I know it was me. In my
junior, well, I guess it was my senior year, maybe
into my junior year, I never thought I'd go
anyplace but TCU. That was just destiny. And
grandparents still lived in Fort Worth, and we
went back up there all the time, active in church
youth activities, which often centered around
TCU. And my chemistry teacher in high school said,
if you got a big scholarship to A&M, would you go?
And I thought he'd lost his mind. I just thought he
had lost his mind, but I was intrigued. And I
started getting recruited by the President's
Endowed Scholar Program in its early days. And a
friend of my sister's,
I can't believe, I can't remember his last name,
John, he'll come to me, had been a very bright, fun
guy, and he had gotten a President's Scholarship
to A&M. And so that helped with the validity of the
uh... suggestion but in those days the cool kids
didn't go to A&M and the smart kids didn't go to A&M
and the country kids went to A&M and so I just kind of
toyed with the idea, but I said, well, listen, you
know, come on up to campus, we'll show you around
and give you the tour, and I just, I fell in love. I
also had a chance to be a delegate to SCONA when I was
in high school, and so spent a couple days on campus
then and fell in love then, and so between having
gone to SCONA and And that recruitment trip, I
applied for the scholarship, got it. I'll never
forget. Of course, I was a little concerned about
how my family would react to the possibility of me
going to A&M. And Daddy worked out of the house, and
he was such a character. And the day that the letter
came from A&M telling me that I'd been awarded the
President's Scholarship, he got home first and
got that letter. And there's still debate in our
family as to whether or not he had steamed it open
first or not. We really don't know. But he got a
string and hung that string down in the middle of
the kitchen so that that letter was right at eye
level when I walked in the back door from school
that day. And so this was like September, October
of my senior year. So very early. We didn't have
early admissions back then. So by... Halloween,
probably, of my senior year in high school, I was
admitted. I had my ID number. I was on the list for
the dorm. I mean, everything was done. It was just
amazing. And so I didn't even hear, I went ahead and
applied to TCU. Of course, didn't hear from them
until spring. Went to the TCU college thing that
they had at the Shamrock Hotel, you know, back
then. And I just thought, oh my gosh, what am I going
to do? And I went ahead and applied for a
Chancellor's Scholarship, which was an even more
prestigious scholarship at TCU than the
President's Endowed Scholarship was. Got it, and
turned it down. Because I had fallen in love with
A&M. And I had already heard some, you know, the
inklings about the medical school. And I knew I
wanted, I even knew I wanted to be an allergist when
I was in high school. Knew I wanted to go into
medicine. And nobody in my family had been in
medicine. Daddy had an old trainer's Bible when he
played high school football at Birdville High in
Fort Worth. And I read that thing from cover to
cover. It just fascinated me. And then I read the
Reader's Digest Home Medical Guide from cover to
cover. I just could not get enough of it. And
everybody in my family thought I'd lost my mind.
And so the prospect of being able to get into
medical school after two years of college was very
appealing to me. And I'd grown up in Houston. I
didn't want any part of the medical center. It was
too big and too... That was my backyard. I grew up
with all the kids whose parents were doctors over
there, and that didn't seem very glamorous to me at
all. You know, it's funny, the perspectives we
had. When you came up, say, for SCONA or any other
pre-enrollment visits, what was it that
impressed you about A&M? the mood on campus. I'd
spent a lot of time on the TCU campus. I'd spent a lot
of time on the Rice campus because I grew up about a
mile north of Rice University and that's where I
rode my bike and I had family friends that had gone
there and learned how to drive in the Rice Stadium
parking lot. And the mood on campus, the looks on
the faces of the students, just the gestalt of the
whole experience was entirely different. And
that was apparent to me even at those brief time
periods that I had visited there.
You know, of course, this was 1973, tail end of the
Vietnam era. You know, protests going on in other
campuses. You know, my sister's friends having
draft numbers. She was two and a half, three years
older in school, two and a half years in age than I
was. And the angst that I saw on the other campuses
was not here. And I liked that. Did you go to fish
camp? Nope. didn't know I don't know I had a busy
summer scheduled and I don't really think that I
realized how important it was and it may have
conflicted with some church stuff that I was doing
so so I didn't go all right now this is the fall of 74
when you come up to enroll who brought you and what
did you bring? All the stuff. Oh, Lord. Daddy
brought me, and I remember we kind of had our
signals crossed, and I thought I had a couple more
days at home than I did, and it was really at the last
minute. It was like, oh, my God, I've got to
register this afternoon. And I tearfully told my
best friend goodbye on the phone, and Daddy threw
me in the car, and we went. Mom didn't go. I think
Sally had already gone back to TCU for her senior
year. And I remember I had a cool stereo that I had
bought with money that I had earned working the
year before at a stereo store. I just gave my
paycheck back and bought a nice stereo. And I had a
bunch of clothes. I remember I had met my roommate
at orientation. We had been roommates just by
potluck at orientation. Decided we got along
pretty well. So Stephanie Forrest from San
Antonio. And so we thought we were really cool
because we had matching bedspreads. We just
thought we were pretty hot. But we didn't have
rugs. We didn't have, I think, more what we didn't
have in terms of more than what we had. We didn't
have a TV. We didn't have, you know, certainly.
Didn't have a microwave. Didn't have a microwave.
Did have a little refrigerator. Did get the little
refrigerator. And this was in what dorm? Kruger.
Kruger. And yours truly was the M.C. at the Grand
Open. Oh, gosh. It was, oh, because that was just
the cool place to live in the Commons. Because that
was before Mosier and Esten had opened. It was just
Kruger and Dunn. What were they, generally
describe the people who lived in Kruger Dunn? What
were they, where were they from? What were they
like? What were they? In general, the Kruger Dunn
kids were the big city, middle class kids like me.
And there were some of the kids from the smaller
towns. But in general, the women that lived in
Kruger with me that I became, and I'm still very,
very close to, that group of girls that lived
together that first year. They still come meet me
for the first football game every year. We're very
close. They were from big high schools in San
Antonio and Arlington, and they
were business majors and education majors. Were
they all, like you, not an Aggie family? Many of
them were not Aggie families. Some were. Some
were, some weren't. A lot of women, their dads had
gone to A&M. And you knew when you, before you got
here, what your career goal was and what your major
was. And that was your choice. Was there anyone who
deserves credit now for having affected that
career goal for you? Well, I think the allergists
that were my doctors at McGovern Allergy Clinic
were very encouraging. My family
Daddy was very proud of me, but I was Daddy's little
princess, and pretty much anything I did, Daddy
thought was just wonderful. And if his little girl
wanted to be a doctor, he just thought that was
great. I think Mother thought I had lost my mind.
Why would you want to work that hard? We know that
you're smarter than anybody in the family, but why
would you want to work so
hard? But it was very, you know, my chemistry
teacher in high school encouraged me. Some church
people encouraged me. But it was really, it was a
very deep internal passion for me. You're
confirming one thing we learned in the 60s doing
that aspirations report. We were trying to find
out who, what, how most affects a young person's
choice of where to go to college. We found out that
as often as not, parents were negative that the
kids would rebel. But the most central one was that
youngster's favorite teacher, advisor,
counselor, particularly related to what their
major might be. That is, your English teacher's
advice would not have been nearly as important as
your chemistry teacher's. And so you're
confirming that. Fascinating. All right. Did you
have to go through registration? Yes. Yes. How did
you register? Stand in line? Yep. Standing in
line. And I can remember... I took the advanced
placement tests. Back then, you didn't have
courses. It was just if you wanted to take the test
to place that, you could. You actually got grades.
I placed out of Spanish, all my Spanish, which now I
really regret not having taken any. So I thought,
cool, Spanish is done. I can cross that one off the
list. placed out of chemistry, but it would have
been with a C, out of freshman chemistry. And I
remember the dean of the College of Science, John
Beckham, what was his name? Well, he was the
associate dean. Okay. He had a deep throat.
I was talking to him. I remember sitting at a table.
I was looking at my transcript. I was signing up for
freshman chemistry, or seeing if I could place out
of freshman chemistry and just go on to organic or
something. And he said, you know, you're pre-med.
You may not want to do that. That may not be the best
idea. The seal will go on your transcript. Regular
freshman chemistry is just going to bore you to
tears. Even though you're not a chemistry major, I
want to put you in the chemistry for chemistry
majors. And of course, I was young and idealistic.
And I thought, oh, cool. That's great. Because I
remember my sixth grade teacher telling me, if you
have the opportunity to take an advanced class or
an honors class or something, do it. Always avail
yourself of that opportunity. And so I still had
that mindset. And so there were 30 kids in the
classes compared to 300 in the big seminar
classes. I made an A the first semester. But what I
didn't realize is that they graded, it wasn't
really even a curve. The top 10 kids in the class got
A's, the middle 10 kids in the class got B's, and the
bottom 10 kids in the class got C's. And so I may have
made my first semester, but I made a C the second
semester, even though I really didn't do that
badly. And it just blew my GPA. And I've been mad at
that man ever since for giving me that advice.
But... When I took quantitative analysis my
junior year, I just flew through it with A's
because of that background that I had gotten in
that freshman chemistry class, although it was
kind of just my grade point average then. Some
other important courses that first semester that
you remember? Teachers, courses? Well, I took the
big freshman biology class.
Don't remember much about that at all, except it
was big and boring. English? English. Placed out
of English. Placed out of freshman English. Math,
history? Math. I took pre-calculus from a
teaching assistant who I couldn't understand. I
took honors history. I was in the honors program.
It didn't turn me on. Didn't do real well in there.
It was, but boy, I sure enjoyed student government
in Skona, and boy, I jumped into student
activities feet first. Now, how did, were you
self-propelled there, or did somebody encourage
you? Oh, yeah, I was, I've been an inveterate
joiner from day one, and so I was in, got involved in
student, and all the gals I lived with, we all were
executive aides for student government, got
involved in Skona because I had been in Skona, and I
had always played the piano in high school, and
auditioned for the Century Singers, but Bob made
me the accompanist. Of course, he was doing that in
the scene. Bob Boone. Yeah, doing that in the
scene, get up at the same time, made me an
accompanist because he needed the piano player
more than he needed another alto. And so I spent
every noon playing the piano for an hour in between
my classes. And I'll never forget my young I almost
had too much fun my freshman year. It was probably
about February my freshman year, and the Aggie
players were going to do Godspell, and Godspell,
I'd played all the way through high school, knew
all the music, just loved it. And a lot of the kids in
the chorus who were auditioning for Godspell
wanted me to play for their auditions. I was like,
okay, that's fine. You know, it's like, I'm pretty
bad, I don't have time to do this show, but, you
know, I'll play for your audition, that'll be kind
of fun, because I knew the music by heart. And so I
had played for two or three kids that had
auditioned, and John Joy was the head of the
theater department and Aggie Players back then.
What a character he was. So this poor kid had just
sung this mediocre audition solo off-key. So John
was like, okay, nice audition. You, what's your
name? He points to me at the piano. I'm like, Sue
Rudd. Sue, how do you spell that? Fine, you're
playing for the show. And then goes on. I'm like,
no, no, wait, you don't understand. You know this
music. I need you. And so I was like, oh, okay.
So at one point in time, so I was the music director
for Godspell. So I taught all the singers all the
music as well as playing with the band. And so there
were times at the end of my freshman year when I was
playing the piano six hours a day in addition to
trying to be a pre-med. And just doing government
and scone and all this other kind of stuff.
Describe during that year, describe your routine
from getting up to going to bed at night A typical
day, what time did you get up and do what and where
and when? I don't think I had any 8 o'clock classes
my freshman year. I really don't remember. I'd get
up, because I always had to have breakfast, go down
to the Commons for breakfast. How did a young lady
dress in that dining hall for breakfast? We
dressed. We dressed. I mean, you put your makeup on
and you got dressed. It was not unusual for us to
wear dresses and pantyhose and heels to class or a
cool pantsuit or something like that. But you'd
eat with your friends. Your classes, by and large,
were held where? They were all over. Biology would
be in the biology building. Chemistry was in the
chemistry building. History was either in
Harrington or the history building. I don't even
remember. It may have been the academic building.
So it was all over the place. Fortunately, I didn't
have to go down to Zachary, because at that point in
time, that just seemed so far away. And I'd have two
or three classes in the morning. I'd head over to
the MSC at lunch and play piano for an hour, try to
run back to the commons to grab a bite to eat before
the lunch line closed, and then usually had some
kind of lab in the afternoon, chemistry lab,
biology lab, something like that. We'd go till 5,
get back to the dorm, grab a bite to eat. And in the
evenings, I always had some type of committee
meeting, student senate, SCONA. There was always
something to do. Where did you study? Usually in my
room, or in the study carrels. I didn't come to the
library very much. Was it quiet? Yeah, it really
was. It was pretty quiet. Sometimes I'd go in the
study carrels, because everybody was going off in
so many different directions. And we didn't have
TVs and all this kind of stuff in our rooms. So the
rooms were really pretty quiet. How did a new co-ed
get introduced to Aggie traditions?
Particularly one whose background was purple and
white. Yes. Basically going to, you know, meeting
kids that had gone to fish camp. Because a lot of the
gals that I ran around with had gone to fish camp.
And it's, you know, when Silver Taps comes along,
you know, everything came to a screeching halt and
everybody went to Silver Taps and the lights were
out. It was just, it was a herd mentality. I hate
to... When you went to your first Silver Taps, what
impression did it make?
It was, it was really an overwhelming experience
for me. I did not know the student who had been
killed. I was just amazed at how the mood And the
energy level on campus, just like somebody had
flipped a switch all of a sudden. And walking
quietly towards the academic building,
stunned by the power of the silence and the quiet
among rowdy people who were all of a sudden quiet,
solemn. It was a very spiritual experience for me.
And then walking back to campus, I mean back to the
dorm, and the whole rest of the night, people were
quiet. Let me add an editorial note for the typist
here. Somewhere about this time in the early 70s as
dean of faculties, a group of students came to me to
ask for advice regarding whether or not they
should hold silver taps for an undergraduate who
lived off campus who had gotten killed in a car
wreck after burglarizing a 7-Eleven store in
Brenham. Oh, wow. And they were, should they or
should they not? As I recall, my response to them
was to ask them a question, for whom do you hold
silver taps? for Aggies. Was this an Aggie? Was he
enrolled or not? He was enrolled. I said, all
right, I leave it to your judgment. They held
silver taps. Wow. Which I think was appropriate.
Yeah, I do too. Who are we to judge? Exactly. Would I
want them to have silver taps for me if I had gotten
myself in a stupid situation like that? Yeah. All
right. What was it like to go to your first Aggie
home football game? as a student. Oh, my gosh, it
was just absolutely amazing. Of course, hearing
kids on campus talk about, you know, what football
games were like, you know, seeing the excitement
of the guys in the Corps, hearing the band
practice.
Really, the first Midnight Yale practice was just
absolutely incredible. I don't really remember
that much about it. I know I didn't have a date, but
just, I was like, how could you get all these people
together? at midnight on a Friday night. And even
though kids, of course, back then the drinking age
was 18. So, you know, everybody had been drinking
and everybody had been partying and it was just
absolutely wild. But it was just an amazing
experience. It's kind of hard to describe. Up at
the first football game, I was like, can I really
stand up the whole game? But back in those days, we
wore dresses and heels and hoes to football games
and stood on those damn bleachers for three hours
in the heat and just didn't think a thing about it.
Now, was it socially okay for a young lady to go to a
game without a date? Well, yeah, because there
were enough of us back then that we weren't really
alone. And it was less socially acceptable to not
go to the game than it was to go without a date.
Since you weren't in the Corps and all that, was
there any kind of Corps... put-downs of you
co-eds? No, they loved it. But it was the first year
of W-1. So it was the very first year that women were
in the Corps. And so there were a lot of negative
attitudes directed towards them. Gosh, those
women had such a hard time. I just am so amazed at
their stick-to-itiveness and their stamina,
having to endure what I know they must have
endured. I didn't know any of them very well. As far
as you recall, about how many were there in W-1? Oh,
I'm thinking 20 or 30. That's what I thought. Yeah.
Two dozen or so. Yeah. And hearing the guys in the
Corps, very negative things. Did you give any
thought to being in the Corps yourself? No, not for
a minute. I didn't want any part of that. And so when
you and your female, your co-ed colleagues, same
class and so forth, you all didn't get anything
said? You don't remember things said behind your
back as you walked down the hallway or anything?
All right. Did, let's see, Midnight Y'all
Practices, oh, Bonfire. Bonfire. What did you and
your co-ed friends, what did, did y'all do
anything regarding Bonfire? Women didn't have
anything to do with Bonfire back then. And it was on
the Duncan? Yeah, yeah. We, you know, watched it go
up. It was really a totally male activity. And we
all thought they were kind of nuts, but we admired
what they were doing and thought it was really
cool. And just the, you know, and to me, a frosty
clear November day will always be bonfire
weather. Hearing the guys go, it's bonfire
weather, and their excitement about that. And
then... I don't even remember if I went to Bonfire
my freshman year. I don't remember. Because I went
home for Thanksgiving and maybe I did. Did you go to
any out-of-town football games? Yes.
Came home for I guess it was a rice game. Of course,
you know, living a mile away from the campus, that
was easy to come home for the weekend with a bunch of
friends and go to the game. So at your house you had a
number of guests that weekend? Yeah, yeah, and my
poor parents had no idea what had hit them. How did
you, during that first fall, how did you
communicate with home? Letters or phone calls?
Phone calls mostly, letters and phone calls. And
mom and dad, dad would call every once in a while and
mom would, mom didn't call much, but it was so
expensive to make a lot of phone calls. And your
cell phone didn't work very well then? No, it
really didn't. Email wasn't running.
How did you, as you're beginning academically,
how did you feel about the way your progress that
first semester academically? Were you doing
pretty well? I didn't do as well as I... Of course,
I'd never made... I made one B between eighth grade
and my senior year in high school. And made a couple
of Bs. And I may have even made a C on something that
first semester because I played so much. And I
remember that was kind of a very rude awakening.
Because I knew that I had to keep my grades up if I
wanted to get into medical school. And if I wanted
to keep my scholarship, I had to have over... I
think I had to have over a 3.0 to keep my president's
scholarship. It may have been a 3.2. So it was a, you
know, you had to keep it together. Who did you turn
to for advice? Nobody. No, you didn't have? No. Let
me turn back on. At
the end of that first semester, you didn't do quite
as well as you had hoped, and did that change
anything in your... I started doubting...
whether or not I could really get into medical
school. And by the end of the second semester, when
I really didn't do much better, I actually changed
my major from pre-med to pre-pharmacy. I just
thought, I'm not too sure I can cut this. And so
then, so came back my sophomore year as a
pre-pharmacy major, but worked at the allergy
clinic where the allergist had been mentors to me
as a summer job. Oh, very good. After your freshman
year. Yes. Oh, splendid. And so worked there
full-time. And those guys had known me since I was
five years old because I had bad allergies and
asthma as a child. And
saw everything. Saw what the nurse... I never...
toyed with nursing. I never wanted to do that, but I
thought, well, med tech, pharmacy, something
medically related, because I really liked the
chemistry aspects of it. And they let me do
everything. I did everything from filing charts
to putting patients in the room until by the end of
the summer, I knew how to give allergy shots and
skin testing, and they taught me everything. It
was just wonderful. And really, by the end of that
sometime, At the end of that summer, sometime
during my sophomore year, I realized, I like what
the doctors do. That's what I want to do. I don't
want to do what any of these other people do. So I got
back on track again sometime, I believe, during my
sophomore year. I was taking more of a traditional
sophomore pre-med curriculum, regular organic
chemistry, Shakespeare, to finish my English
requirements. What else? I guess Chordate
Anatomy is what sophomores took then. Classic old
guy that taught Chordate. He taught Chordate
forever. I don't remember his name, but he was
amazing. The labs with those classes, probably,
oh gosh, I don't remember what else I took. No, I
took that during summer school. Did you have any
teachers that really made an deep impression on
you. No. Really? And it's, and I never, I was so damn
independent and so stubborn and I think probably a
little intimidated too. I never.